[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: By
now, much of the world
has heard about the phenomenal
archaeological site of Gobekli
Tepe.
But did you know that
there was a sister site
that our guest today,
Andrew Collins,
feels may have been the seat of
the biblical rendering of Adam
and Eve.
It's called Karahan Tepe,
located in Turkey as well, not
that far away from Gobekli.
"Tepai," "Tepee," "Tepeh?"
>>ANDREW COLLINS:
"Tom-ah-to," tomato.
>>REGINA: Tomato, yes.
No one knows how to pronounce
it, except the Turkish people.
Welcome, Andrew.
I have not been sitting
with you-- well, gosh,
I think since we were in
London a number of years ago.
And what I thought
I'd do is just pick up
a little thread of
that conversation.
For anyone who wants to
go back into the archives,
look into our
previous conversation,
they'll see where we came or you
came from the story of Cygnus.
So we're just going to do
a brief sketch of Cygnus,
and it's importance to this
story and then move into it.
>>COLLINS: Well, I mean,
Cygnus is a constellation.
And as a sky figure, it's
usually seen as a bird.
In the Near East and
Anatolia, modern day Turkey,
it was a vulture.
In other parts of the world,
it was a swan or a goose.
Over here in the States, it was
generally the turkey, vulture,
or the eagle, or a hawk.
And in other words,
it was the bird
that was associated
with the human soul
and the transmigration of the
soul in any part of the world.
And so Cygnus
represented not only
that transmigration of
the soul, but the point
of entry into the sky world.
And the reason why it became so
is because of its very specific
placement on the Milky Way,
the edge of our own Milky Way
galaxy that's around us.
And it's at a spot where the
Milky Way breaks into two
due to this dark line that
goes through the middle, known
as the Dark Rift.
The importance about this
is that this spot was seen
as the point of entry into the
sky world, probably for 15,
20,000 years.
And these ideas, it would seem,
were retained by the ancient
peoples down to the time of
Karahan Tepi and Gobekli Tepe
sometime around
11,500 years ago,
which is why we see so many
images of vultures on the stones
at these sites, because it
was their symbol of the soul,
and of transmuting from a
base level into a pure state
of being, basically.
>>REGINA: And that's what
all of the ancients--
then we have to remember,
back in this time,
there was very advanced
spiritual technology, as well as
other technologies.
So they were bringing this
connection with the cosmos
through.
And so that would show
up in the ancient sites
and their orientation.
And that's really what the
book on Cygnus was a lot about,
was that orientation.
So let's go to your discovery
of Karahan, because most of us
didn't know anything about it.
We only heard of
Gobekli, and what
you were looking for when
you went there, initially.
>>COLLINS: Yeah.
>>REGINA: When did you
first hear about it?
And so how did this come about?
>>COLLINS: Well, I
was in Turkey in 2004.
It was just after the
publication of a book of mine,
called From the Ashes of
Angels, which basically looked
at the idea of all of
the mythical beings
from the different
traditions of the Near East,
from Sumerian, from Babylonian,
and Hebrew, with names,
such as the Watchers, the
Nephilim, the Anunnaki.
And what I suggested
was that they
were a memory of the prime
movers behind the foundation
of civilization in
Southeast Turkey
at the end of the last Ice Age.
That's what the
book basically said.
It was eventually
published in Turkey,
and that allowed me to
go out there in 2004.
And whilst I was there,
I visited Gobekli Tepe
for the first time.
And I was there, and I was
told about this other site that
had just been discovered,
called Karahan.
And it was in the
remote Tektek Mountains,
which is about 25 miles
away from Gobekli.
And I saw a photograph
of a T-shaped pillar,
very similar to the
T-shaped pillars
that you find in all of the
stone enclosures at Gobekli.
And I thought, this is clearly
part of the same culture.
I need to find this.
So just two days later, I was
scouring the Tektek Mountains
with a driver and
an interpreter.
And nobody seemed to know
where the hell this place was.
>>REGINA: No GPS
for it at that time.
>>COLLINS: But eventually,
we did find it.
And we came to this farmhouse,
and this little boy came out.
An interpreter spoke
to him, and he just
pointed towards this
hill towards the south.
And we walked towards it.
And on the ground were a few
stone tools to start with.
But the closer we got
to it, the more and more
of these stone tools
were everywhere.
And I'd seen something similar
on the approach to Gobekli.
So I knew that this was a
site as old as Gobekli Tepe.
And as we got
closer, we also saw,
sticking out of the ground,
the heads of T-shaped pillars
just about visible.
Plus, there were
fragments of what
are known as porthole
windows, which
are like these square or
oblong-carved fragments, which
were entrances into
enclosures that have now gone.
And yet, the strange thing
is that these fragments
look like they could have come
off of a medieval building.
They were so advanced.
And I realized that
somewhere underneath here
was a complex that was
similar to Gobekli Tepe.
So I started calling it the
sister site of Gobekli Tepe.
I started to write about it.
I visited it on
various occasions.
And the family that
lived in that farmhouse
grew to love me as a person.
I would go there.
I researched every
single part of it.
And then in 2018,
I heard that they
were about to start
excavations there.
And I wasn't--
>>REGINA: Who was supposed
to start the excavations?
>>COLLINS: The excavations--
>>REGINA: Was it by
the Turkish government?
>>COLLINS: Yeah.
I mean, but they'd been given
to the University of Istanbul
under the leadership of
Nesmee Carroll, a very
well-known archaeologist.
In the following year,
2019, excavations began.
And, of course, we weren't
able to go there because
of the lockdowns, until 2021,
when they finally revealed
what they'd found there.
And when I saw the pictures,
I thought, oh my God.
It was virtually a city
that they'd now uncovered.
And the pictures of it
were just breathtaking.
And I realized that I
just had to get out there
as soon as possible.
But I was able to examine
some of the overhead images
of the site.
And I started to
realize immediately
that there were astronomical
alignments here.
And that was really
the beginning
of the book, Katahan
Tepe, which is
the one you were talking about.
>>REGINA: And one of the things
that strikes me is, here, you're
poking around these
mountains, and you
come across a farmhouse
and a family, who
are the only gatekeepers because
they're the only ones that
know about it.
And it's so often the case on
these magnificent discoveries.
It's just, someone
is like, oh, yeah.
Yeah, it's over there,
if someone happens
to pop by with some curiosity.
So here we are.
You've become friends
with the family.
Now, when you went
there, you were not
greeted in an inviting
way at one point.
There was military and
there were machine guns.
So let's get into this because
this seems to be the case.
Everything special has
machine guns surrounding it.
>>COLLINS: Yeah,
I mean, it's true.
This was a couple of years ago.
The archaeologists had just
discovered a brand new enclosure
on the very top of the hill.
And clearly, this was going
to be of great importance.
But what we didn't know at
the moment that we went up
there and were
suddenly confronted
by a guard in full military--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>COLLINS: --dress,
holding this machine gun--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>COLLINS: --and
saying, no photos.
No photos.
And just repeating this.
And we're thinking,
what's going on here?
What we didn't know is
that sitting within a box
that they covered in wood, so
you couldn't see what was going
on, was this huge
statue that was 7.5
feet tall in a seated position.
It was actually on a bench.
So if you stood
it up, as it were,
it would be about 9 feet tall.
It was a giant.
And it was a figure,
which was, arguably,
the oldest image of a human
anywhere in the world.
And they just uncovered
it when myself
and my colleague,
Hugh Newman, got up
there and saw all of this.
Now, obviously, we
saw the enclosure.
We didn't actually
take any photographs,
but we went away
and drew what we
saw because we realized
something incredible was
going on here.
And I can understand why
they were trying to protect
what they'd just discovered.
Because, firstly, they have had
problems with treasure hunters.
>>REGINA: Oh, it's terrible
in that part of the world.
>>COLLINS: Yeah.
But the other reason, of course,
is the release of information.
The Turkish government,
the Turkish archaeologists
want to be, in many
ways, the sole people
that bring these stories
to the general public.
But that night, I made
inquiries with a few contacts
that I know in the
archaeological world in Turkey.
And they told us what
had actually been found.
And, I mean, at
this point, we're
trying to imagine exactly what--
we're not even seeing pictures
of it, remember.
We had to wait until
a couple of weeks,
and then finally,
it was released
within the international media.
And we saw the statue
for the first time.
And it's extraordinary.
>>REGINA: Explain to us
the features of the statue.
>>COLLINS: Well, the statue
has this huge head, much larger
than a normal human head.
It's got ears with holes in it.
But as you go lower down,
the hands of this gentleman,
as it is, definitely a
gentleman, is touching or almost
holding his phallus.
And we'll come on
to the significance
of that in a moment.
But, I mean,
everything was there.
This was one of the most
perfect images of a human
from the prehistoric age.
And yet, we knew that
this was 11,000 years old.
And trying to
understand this, I knew,
would occupy my
mind for many months
ahead here, as we tried to
understand not only what
the archaeologists
were saying about it,
but how we could interpret it.
And the one thing
that we know is
that the memory of the prime
movers behind the creation
of Gobekli Tepe and Karahan
Tepe are remembered in myth
as the Anunnaki.
This is the term
that's used in Sumerian
and Babylonian tradition.
And so who are the Anunnaki?
Well, some of my
colleagues would
like to see them, obviously,
as space beings coming down
hundreds of thousands of years
ago and creating humanity to--
>>REGINA: But Sitchin put
them at 400,000 years ago.
>>COLLINS: Of course.
But for me, having
read the Sumerian texts
and the Babylonian texts,
it suggests something else.
It suggests that these
gods, these mythical beings,
were possibly flesh and
blood and were the founders
of civilization, because all the
accounts talk about them giving
us, mortal kind, the
rudiments of civilization,
including animal husbandry,
agriculture, the first cities,
they helped us build
the first cities.
So they don't seem to
be space beings to me.
And even Klaus Schmidt, the
discoverer of Gobekli Tepe,
in the book he wrote
under this name in 2012,
he actually wrote in
there that the Anunnaki
were, most certainly,
the memory of those
that created Gobekli Tepe.
And I think that he was correct.
And I think that this statue
is our first true image
of what Anunnaki looked like.
>>REGINA: As flesh and blood.
>>COLLINS: As flesh and blood.
>>REGINA: Because if you go
back into the various writings
about Atlantis-- and,
of course, all we have
are the famous ones pass
through Plato, and Critias,
and so forth.
Most people have read those.
But then we also
have an emerging body
of work over the
centuries of people
who can travel back in
time and have remembrances.
Because every place we've
ever been stored in the aura.
So it's natural we should
be able to start tapping in.
And people of that
kind of stature
were common in Atlantean times.
>>COLLINS: That's correct.
>>REGINA: And so we can assume
if Atlantis supposedly sunk
around 12,000 some years ago,
and now we're looking 100 years
after that roughly, right?
>>COLLINS: Yeah.
>>REGINA: It seems
like we're looking
at beings who made
it off and were
able to help reseed
civilization, which
became the basis of
civilization for the Sumerians.
And I noticed you didn't
mention Egypt in there.
This is a different
sect, different body.
>>COLLINS: There's a direct
links between Gobekli Tepe.
I mean, even Klaus Schmidt,
the discoverer of Gobekli,
he wrote a paper pointing
out the clear relationship
between the stone
tools that were
being used by the
people at Gobekli Tepe
and those at a site within sight
of the Great Pyramid at a place
called Helwan at the same time,
particularly a type of tool
called the Helwan point.
And he basically said that it's
quite clear that whoever founded
Helwan either came from
the area of Gobekli Tepe
or there was obviously
some, either,
direct or indirect
trading going on.
And I find this incredibly
interesting because, obviously,
there are so many traditions
that suggest that the pyramids,
the Sphinx have very early
foundations going back
to 2,000--
>>REGINA: Very early.
And even earlier.
>>COLLINS: Yeah.
So in other words, there
is almost certainly
going to be a link between
the protoforms of what
would eventually become those
pyramids and the Gobekli Tepe
civilization.
And as I said,
the stone tools, I
know that doesn't sound very
important to most people,
but that's the thing
that tells us that there
was a direct link or--
>>REGINA: Of these cultures
existing simultaneously.
>>COLLINS: Yeah.
In other words,
that the same ideas,
the same cosmology, the
same idea of astronomy
that could be found at
Gobekli Tepe and Karahan Tepe
are also present in
Egypt at the same time,
and that they will
then linger in Egypt
and be behind the construction
of the Great Pyramid
and, obviously,
the Sphinx as well.
>>REGINA: Now, going back
to Turkey in this region,
so this is an incredibly
important region and discovery
because it's the reseeding of
technological, intelligent life
after the great deluge.
And so you have woven in the
Adam and Eve story to this.
So that would have to
be post-deluge as well.
That particular
sect of humanity.
So let's talk about that.
>>COLLINS: Well, we're
talking, obviously,
about the Book of Genesis, the
first book of the Old Testament
and the stories that it
tells about Adam and Eve.
And, obviously, the
deluge, I think,
is a memory of what's known
as the Younger Dryas event,
which is this 1,200-year window
in human history that we know
there was a mini ice age during
that time, but it was triggered,
the latest evidence
would suggest,
by fragments of a comet
entering the Earth's atmosphere,
exploding virtually on impact
and almost setting alight
a large part of the
northern hemisphere,
creating a period of darkness,
lowering the temperature,
and causing this ice age.
And this was not something that
all happened in one day either.
It would seem as if there
were similar events going
on for hundreds of years.
It was a terrible time for
humanity to have lived.
And the end of this Younger
Dryas period is around 9,600 BC,
which, interestingly enough, is
the same date that Plato tells
us that, finally, the last
parts of Atlantis sunk.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>COLLINS: And that can
be explained as well.
But that's when Gobekli Tepe
is founded, at that exact date,
9,600 BC.
It's not a coincidence.
>>REGINA: No.
>>COLLINS: And so firstly, yes,
that deluge, which, by the way,
in other Hebrew
myths and legends,
doesn't just talk
about a time of water,
floods, and Noah and
whatever, it also
says that, at the same time,
fire rained down from the sky.
And that the floods
cleared away the fire.
That's what it virtually says.
>>REGINA: Because
it was cinders.
>>COLLINS: Yes, yeah.
So all of this is
happening around that time.
But let's talk about the Garden
of Eden, and Adam and Eve,
and, of course, the
serpent, because we
know that Eden itself
was a real place.
And although it seems to
have shifted around the map,
the original Eden was in the
area of Southeastern and Eastern
Turkey.
And we know that because
it's said that, from there,
the four rivers of
paradise took their rise.
And two of those
rivers are easily
identified as the
Euphrates and the Tigris.
The other two can be
identified as the Oxus River
that flows eastwards into the
Caspian Sea and the Greater Zab
River that's been recognized
as the fourth river of paradise
for at least 2000 years.
And all of these rise
in Eastern Turkey.
So we've got the right area.
And this area has the
memory that it is Eden.
And the strongest
of these stories
comes from Sanliurfa, which
is the very ancient city
right by Gobekli Tepe.
And the oldest name of
Sanliurfa was Adama,
which means the place of Adam.
And it was said that it was
here that God placed down
the soul of Adam and made his
body from the local red Earth.
Because Adam just means red
Earth, basically, anyway.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
genetic material.
>>COLLINS: And that, obviously,
there was the garden there.
Eve was created as well.
And they all live happily,
until this serpent
comes along and says,
eat of that tree there.
So they do so and they realize
their innocence, they're naked,
and God throws
them out, lest they
eat of the other tree, which is
a tree of life and live forever.
So they're then thrown
out onto the local plain.
Now, this is the story that's
actually told to this day
by the people of Sanliurfa.
And they say that they went
on to the nearby Harran plain,
and they started
tilling the land,
but they didn't
know what to use.
And Eve opened her hand and
said, oh, what about using this.
And it was a stalk of wheat that
she'd apparently brought out
of paradise, of course.
And so they till the land.
And the first few years,
they get very little yield.
But then a bull comes along.
They realize they can use
this bull to plow the land.
So they do that, and the yield
increases and they're all happy.
And it said that thereafter,
and this is the local legend,
that they kissed the
bull on the forehead
every year to give thanks.
You think, what is all this?
And ultimately, the bull simply
represents the land itself.
In Anatolian tradition, to
this day, the land is a bull,
and every time the bull
moves, you get earthquakes,
you get thunderstorms,
you get volcanoes.
OK, so it basically means
just kissing the land itself.
But then, of course,
we've got two things.
The fruit.
What is this fruit?
Well, we assume it's
this nice rosy red apple.
No, no, no, no.
The original word
means fruit or seed
and can relate to
a seed of wheat.
So in other words, the original
fruit was probably wheat.
In other words, the
invention of agriculture.
And, of course,
that brings what's
known as a sedentary lifestyle
or an urban lifestyle,
where everybody has got
to live in the same place
and do the same things
day in, day out.
So that's your
loss of innocence,
really, from the hunter
gatherer lifestyle
that had previously existed.
>>REGINA: Where you have to read
the land and live day-to-day,
rely, on your instincts.
>>COLLINS: Get up at a
certain time every day.
Your children are
going to do that.
So that's the end of
Paradise, ultimately.
But then who was this serpent?
And the serpent, I think,
is a memory of the serpent
that I believe that the people
of Karahan Tepe in particular
were venerating.
And the question then becomes,
what was this serpent?
And the answer to
that is, I think
it was the Milky Way itself.
The alignments at Karahan
are very specifically
towards the Milky Way,
and in particular, an area
that we know as
the Galactic Bulge.
This is a very bright
area, it was almost
like a light bulb
in ancient times,
that marks for us what we
know today through science
is the center of our
own Milky Way galaxy.
But in the past, it would
seemed like the head of a snake,
with the rest of
the snake being--
>>REGINA: Trailing it.
>>COLLINS: Yeah, trailing behind
it as the Milky Way itself.
So these people were
focusing their minds
on the head of what we might
describe as a cosmic serpent.
And I think that they
were involved in practices
there, where they
would quite literally
go into altered states and
possibly even possession,
where they would be
possessed by this snake
and be able to give
pronouncements.
And with this would
come knowledge, wisdom,
technological understanding,
innovations, et cetera,
et cetera, and
cosmological ideas
or so-called ontological
ideas, like who are we?
Where do we come from?
What is out there?
What is God?
All of these, I
think, were questions
that the people of Karahan Tepe
were asking for the first time.
This ultimately is
this loss of innocence.
In other words,
this serpent, which
is remembered as the snake
in the Garden of Eden,
was a memory of
all this knowledge
being given to these
people for the first time.
>>REGINA: So how did
that become bastardized?
>>COLLINS: I think it
became bastardized purely
across periods of time where
ideas changed into more Orthodox
religions in that region.
I mean, there are
two cities that
were very important to the
descendancy of all of what
we're talking about there.
One is Sanliurfa for
itself, which, as I said,
was anciently Adama.
It was also known as
Edessa in the Bible.
But the other one was
a place called Harran.
Harran was the center of
what we call Hermetica.
The Hermetic tradition,
the tradition
of Hermes Trismegistus.
And this was all this incredible
knowledge and wisdom that
supposedly came out of Egypt.
And some of it did, but
some of it was homegrown.
It was from the area of
Gobekli Tepe and Karahan Tepe.
>>REGINA: And inherited from
previous Atlanteans or whomever.
>>COLLINS: Yes, of course.
And within this
was this knowledge
of god in the form of a serpent.
>>REGINA: Now, how did
they come up with that?
Is it still because
they were aligning
this bright force in the sky?
It was so powerful--
>>COLLINS: Yeah.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>COLLINS: It was.
But it was more than that.
Because by now, they had
this incredible understanding
of astronomy, and astrology,
and the importance
of the snake or the serpent, not
just to do with the Milky Way,
but also to do with the path of
the sun, the so-called ecliptic,
the 12 signs that it
passes through each year,
and the movements of the moon,
and how that crisscrosses
the path of the sun, and
creating positions or moments
when eclipses can take place.
In other words,
this cosmic serpent
was seen as responsible
for all of these,
and these ideas were
filtered through Harran
and the people that lived there,
who were known as the Chaldeans,
into Sumerian, into
Akkadian, into Babylonian,
and Assyrian tradition.
And these would be retained,
passed on to the Greeks,
passed on, eventually, to
the Arabic peoples that
would inherit this area
eventually, and pass
through very important
centers of learning,
like Aleppo, and
Damascus in Syria,
and obviously Baghdad in Iraq.
And, of course, it was from
there that all of these ideas
eventually filter through
into medieval Europe
at the time of the renaissance.
But there's another
branch of activity
that's really
important, and that's
Gnosticism, because Harran
was the center of Gnosticism.
In other words, the very
sacred tradition that
went hand in hand with the
early forms of Christianity.
And in this, god was almost
like this invisible supreme sun.
And its son, S-O-N,
was the serpent itself.
And this was seen
to have manufactured
the universe and the Earth
itself, the so-called Demiurge.
And this particular serpent
was not just venerated
by the Gnostics,
but it was also seen
as the source of their knowledge
and wisdom, their gnosis
or the nous.
In other words, this
inspired intuitive knowledge
that they could learn
directly from God himself
via this cosmic serpent.
And I think that these ideas
that were prevailing at the time
of the early centuries of
Christianity are a memory
of what was going on at Karahan
Tepe as much as 11,000 years
ago.
>>REGINA: So the story about
the serpent being deceitful,
and a tempter, and, of course,
corrupting the female, and then
the female side until
now, pretty much
the last couple thousand years
of sidelining of the feminine,
that clearly wasn't a memory.
There was some political agenda
that inserted itself in there
and took over.
>>COLLINS: Yeah.
Well, I mean, it's just in the
same way as the early years
of Christianity.
We know that Mary Magdalene
played an incredible role--
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>COLLINS: --alongside Jesus.
And then you have people like
Paul coming along and completely
sidelining her and trying
to espouse her completely--
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>COLLINS: --from the gospels
or from the other early texts.
But now we're able to
recreate those texts
and to show that
Mary Magdalene was
an incredibly important
figure, possibly
the most important figure--
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>COLLINS: --other than,
presumably, Jesus himself.
>>REGINA: Yes.
So we just had to get to that
because that's what we're still
under the influence of, sadly.
But humanity is just coming
out from under the influence
after a couple thousand
years of that story.
So one of the things
is you were able to--
and I want to talk
about Pillar 43.
Looking at the site
itself, you were
able to ascertain the
spiritual development
of the passed on information
from Atlantis to this area.
What level would that be?
Because by then, the Earth
had been ravaged enough
that people were really blasted
back to the stone age's,
loss of memory, just
trying to figure it out
from foraging all over again.
It was really quite primitive
after Atlantis went down,
very sadly.
>>COLLINS: Yeah, well,
I mean, Gobekli Tepe
is probably somewhere that
most people will know about,
and it's a whole series
of stone enclosures
with these T-shaped pillars.
Beautiful carved
art, as we know.
But to me, when I
look at Gobekli Tepe,
I see it as almost like
a Catholic cathedral,
somewhere that's full
of chapels dedicated
to different saints, different
altars, the high altar,
the choir area, et
cetera, et cetera.
Whereas Karahan Tepe is
somewhere much deeper,
because here you
have these stone
enclosures that actually
cut out of the bedrock.
I mean, one of which, known
as the pillar shrine--
>>REGINA: That takes technology.
>>COLLINS: --that's
been dropped down.
Yeah, it's not only
technology, but a need or a
want to go deeper than
what has gone before.
Because I think Karahan is
an offshoot from Gobekli.
And I see it almost
like a Gnostic church
more than a Catholic cathedral.
And you've got this pillar
shrine, where they've actually
dropped down from
the bedrock, created
these 10 pillars that are
left out of the rock itself.
And we think there
was a roof on it.
And there was a wall at one end
with this tiny little porthole.
That's the only way that
people could actually
have got into this shrine.
So they've had to have
quite literally go
in almost like a snake
and crawled through
into this shrine, where
you've got these 10 pillars.
And on the side wall, you've
got this huge human head,
three times the size
of a normal head,
on the end of a long,
serpentine neck.
I mean, in all honesty, it looks
like something out of the film
Beetlejuice, in all honesty.
For those that have
seen it, they'll
know what we're talking about.
And what does all
of this represent?
And to me, this is
part of this process
of them wishing to communicate
with this cosmic serpent.
And what's so interesting
is that this pillar shrine,
if you look at it closely, it is
actually the shape of a snake.
In other words, what they
would have been doing
is actually going inside
the head of a snake.
And, of course, why would
you want to do that?
Because you'd want
to be consumed by it,
almost taken into
its DNA to become
a part of this cosmic
version of itself,
so that you could
learn this knowledge,
bring this wisdom back to the
community, which, quite clearly,
you could use for new
technologies, and innovation,
inspiration, intuition,
et cetera, et cetera.
But going back to
where these ideas may
have come from in
the first place.
If you look at either
Karahan or Gobekli,
it's clear that they already
have a cosmology that's
up and running, that's
probably been around
for many thousands of years.
And I'll tell you for why
we mentioned pillar 43.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>COLLINS: And let's
talk about that
because, at Gobekli,
this is the most famous
of all of the carved
T pillars there.
You have a big
vulture in its center.
This represents not
just the soul bird,
but what is known as the
psychopomp, the soul carrier
or the soul accompanier.
In other words, it's that
which accompanies the soul
from this world into
the next or back again.
But above that, you
have these chevrons.
And these seem to
be represent water,
but they don't represent
a normal ocean.
They represent what is
known as the cosmic ocean.
>>REGINA: What are
these purses all about?
>>COLLINS: I mean,
they're not purses.
>>REGINA: I know.
>>COLLINS: To start off with,
I don't think any of them
are purses.
>>REGINA: No, no.
What are they?
>>COLLINS: Well,
what they represent
is the three different worlds,
the sky world, the middle world,
and the lower world, sitting
within the cosmic ocean.
And what this whole device
is showing, the whole stone,
it's a teaching aid for
initiates, for trainee shamans
to show them what
happens when they
get into an altered state of
consciousness, what they will
see, where they will go,
what map to the sky world,
because it's quite clear that
this is important to them.
But if that's the
case, then why is it
that we have similar
ideas within,
let's say, Native
American tradition that
talks about the cosmic ocean
and also the three worlds.
It's there in
Siberia and Mongolia.
It's there within
Hindu tradition,
where it's still important
as a site to this day.
It tells us that there must
have been a universal idea that
was there before the
Americas were broken away
from the Eurasian continent
at the end of the last ice
age, when Atlantis was
drowned and the waters
rose up to break that bridge
between Alaska and Siberia.
So, in other words,
everything that's
happened in North America
and other parts of America,
of course, happens in
isolation, in theory at least.
And that's why you've
got all of these ideas.
In other words, they must be
at least 12,000 years old.
And I think that my colleagues
and I would say that
we're probably talking about
traditions that could be 15
to 20,000 years old,
possibly even 40,
or some people have even
suggested 60,000 years old.
>>REGINA: Because
there's nothing saying
it wasn't concurrent
with parts of Atlantis.
>>COLLINS: Yes.
>>REGINA: And I think
the thing that people
don't think about,
especially because we're
trying to stay with physical
evidence in the dirt,
so to speak, is that when you
had these civilizations of very
high technology and advanced
technology, you had flight.
Things were moved
around, ideas and people
could be moved around
the planet quite easily
because there was flight.
We weren't the only
beings here, which
would have been able to
universally distribute
these ideas, and practices,
and technologies, and such.
So that makes sense to me.
One other thing I
wanted to get to
is what you said
in the beginning.
This was a person of
large proportions.
And now we know
that those are being
discovered all over the world.
And you have your own thoughts
on how these people were treated
and why we deferred to them.
>>COLLINS: Yeah.
Well, the one thing
we know is that there
are hundreds and
thousands of reports
of oversized human
individuals being
found in every
part of the world,
certainly, in North America.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>COLLINS: I'd say, many
hundreds, if not thousands.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>COLLINS: And so they exist.
These bones were there.
Unfortunately, 99.9%
of all of these bones
have either been repatriated,
or lost, or stolen--
>>REGINA: Stolen, yeah.
>>COLLINS: --or
ignored, or whatever.
That's the problem
that we've got.
So we know that giants existed.
We also know that,
in some areas,
that there were so many
giants, for instance,
the Kanawha Valley
in West Virginia,
where the Smithsonian
archaeologists at the end
of the 19th century, the
beginning of the 20th century,
were finding so many of these
giants that they couldn't simply
have existed through some
kind of genetic abnormality,
which we know
today as gigantism.
In other words, they were
a community of their own.
So we know that there were
communities, societies
of giants in the past.
So who were they?
Well, my own research has
suggested that they are
the descendants of the true
giants that existed on this
Earth, right the
way down, probably,
to about 30 to 40,000 years ago
that we call the Denisovans.
Now, they are a distant cousin
of ours, like the Neanderthals.
Although, the Neanderthals
were very small.
>>REGINA: All their own
distinct genetic set, yeah.
>>COLLINS: But everything that
we know about the Denisovans
was, firstly, that they were
incredibly large, probably
from a conservative point of
view, the size of the largest
WWE wrestler or an
American football player,
but arguably even
bigger than that.
In other words, we're
talking 7 feet plus.
>>REGINA: Plus, yeah.
>>COLLINS: And very stocky,
stout individuals as well.
But also that they were
incredibly intelligent.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>COLLINS: I mean, just
look up, for instance,
the Denisovan bracelet.
It's this beautiful
Greenstone bangle
that was found in the
Denisova Cave in Siberia.
>>REGINA: And you write a
lot about this, by the way.
>>COLLINS: I mean, this dates
to about 45 to 50,000 years.
And not only does it look
like it's made on a lathe,
but there is a hole
pierced through it
that has been done by a drill
with a speed rate that's
so fast that it's comparable
to a modern day drill.
And yet, it's 45 to
50,000 years old.
They also created the earliest
bone needles with eyes
to sew, tailored clothing.
They may well have
ridden horses.
And also, we know that these
were the earliest peoples that
took an interest in the movement
of the sun and the moon,
and started recording
down, through notations
on carved figurines, the
cycles of the sun and the moon.
And this would seem to be
almost like an obsessive art
on their part that develops
very, very quickly.
And one of the
reasons why we think
that it developed so quickly
is because the Denisovans
had an autistic mindset, a
mindset that comes with it,
obviously, what we call
savant-like qualities,
in other words, the ability to
be able to learn incredibly fast
and to retain
intricate information,
whether it be to do with
mathematics, art, and drawing,
or obviously, music.
The Denisovans, for
instance, created
what is arguably
the earliest musical
instruments in the world in the
form of a bone flute, or flute,
or pipe, or something,
which fragments have been
found in the Denisova Cave.
And what happened was that our
own ancestors went to Siberia,
Mongolia, and China.
They encountered the Denisovans,
they interbred with them.
And the legacy of the
Denisovans is then carried
into Southwest Asia and
eventually into Anatolia,
where, obviously, we have
Gobekli Tepe and Karahan Tepe.
So that statue that we talked
about earlier, 7.5 feet tall,
in some ways is a
memory of the Denisovans
and that descendancy,
that legacy that's
coming all the way through
to the time of Gobekli
Tepe and Karahan Tepe.
And clearly, this must
have brought with it a lot
of ideas of technology,
innovation, cosmology, astronomy
as well.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>COLLINS: I mean,
this is the one thing
that the Anunnaki were said to
be knowledgeable on, astronomy.
Their original name
is Anunna, which
means of the sky or
the people of the sky.
Now, again, you
could interpret that
as meaning they
came from the sky.
I don't think so.
I think that it
relates to the fact
that they had this incredible
understanding of astronomy
and astrology, and it's
this that they bring in to--
>>REGINA: Well, could
they've also bred
with flesh and blood people?
>>COLLINS: Of course.
>>REGINA: And so what
we're looking at is hybrid.
We're all hybrids of
one kind or another.
>>COLLINS: We are.
>>REGINA: So if we look
at these depictions
throughout the artworks in
the stone carvings in Egypt
and Sumeria, we see that
the rulers, and the kings,
and pharaohs are almost
always very large in stature.
Do you think that was just
an expression of power
the artists rendered
them, or did they still
have remnants of
these bloodlines that
had large stature?
>>COLLINS: Well, that's a
very interesting question,
and I think it's
probably a bit of both.
I mean, firstly, yes, because
most people would never,
ever see the king.
So the idea that he might be
much taller than everybody else
would instill a certain
amount of fear and awe
within the population
as a whole.
But we know from individuals
like the heretic king Akhenaten,
who showed himself, and
his wife, Nefertiti,
and their children with
these extremely long heads,
which I don't--
>>REGINA: And they
were taller as well.
>>COLLINS: Yeah, and taller.
That, quite clearly,
they're trying
to express something else here.
And what we know about the
ancestry of probably Nefertiti
is that she came from the
area of Southeast Turkey,
the area of Gobekli Tepe,
where we know that they were
elongating heads as early
as 7,000 to 8,000 BC.
In other words, this was a
tradition that continued on.
>>REGINA: But it was based on
something organic initially.
>>COLLINS: Yes, it
was, because what
we know about the early
deformation of heads
is that all they were
doing was accentuating
long heads that were
genetic in the first place.
In other words, they were
accentuating it, saying-- just
to make sure that everybody knew
who was the bosses, basically,
or who were the direct
ancestors of these people that
had the original long heads.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
This has flown.
We're literally just
about out of time.
Any final thoughts, because we
haven't gotten to some of it,
that you'd like to share with
people regarding this site?
>>COLLINS: Well, I mean,
I encourage everybody
to go to southeastern
Turkey to see Gobekli Tepe.
>>REGINA: And they'd
be allowed in?
>>COLLINS: Yes, yeah.
>>REGINA: It's OK now.
>>COLLINS: Yeah.
I mean, you can go there, but
what they're uncovering now
is not just simply
a couple of sites.
We're talking about
a civilization--
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>COLLINS: --one which my
colleague Hugh Newman refers
to as a super civilization.
And this existed at the
end of the last ice age,
and very clearly was
the product of knowledge
that had already been there for
many, many thousands of years,
if not tens of
thousands of years.
And it's from this that our
civilization comes from.
So if you want to go to
the cradle of civilization,
this is where you've got to go.
And I have to say,
obviously, we do do tours out
there twice a year
in May and September
if people want to come on to
andrewcollins.com, my website,
all the details are there of
not only these tours, but also
the book Karahan Tepe, which
is Civilization of the Anunnaki
and the Cosmic Origins
of the Serpent of Eden.
The publisher likes long--
>>REGINA: we didn't do the--
I didn't do the subtitles.
>>COLLINS: The publisher
likes very long titles.
It's something to
do with meta tags.
>>REGINA: Yeah, I got it.
>>COLLINS: But, yeah,
beyond that, I mean,
look, it's an incredibly
exciting time for us
to live because all of this
is being uncovered right now.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
It's amazing.
>>COLLINS: So in other words, we
are learning about the origins--
>>REGINA: We're living
through this discovery.
>>COLLINS: --of who we
are and where we come
from for the first time now.
And that's incredible.
>>REGINA: It is indeed.
Thank you so much.
You flew all the
way from London.
Are you in London?
>>COLLINS: Yeah.
>>REGINA: From
London, the last place
I saw you, to be with us today,
and I really appreciate it.
It's exciting work.
Good job.
>>COLLINS: Thank you.
>>REGINA: Good job.
>>COLLINS: It's my
absolute pleasure.
>>REGINA: For more
on Andrew's work,
you can go to andrewcollins.com.
He has several highly
researched books
on ancient sites
and civilization,
just stunning body of work.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Open Minds.